.TH APT\-MGR 1 "2024" "apt-mgr 1.1.0" "APT Package Management Tool"
.SH NAME
apt-mgr \- Professional APT package backup, restore and cleanup tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apt-mgr
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B apt-mgr
is a comprehensive command-line utility designed to simplify package management on Debian-based systems (Debian, Ubuntu, Kali Linux). It provides robust backup/restore capabilities, intelligent cleanup features, and detailed system analysis in a user-friendly interface.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B backup [filename] [\-\-minimal]
Backup installed packages. With \fB\-\-minimal\fR, only user-installed packages are saved.
.TP
.B restore [filename] [\-\-dry-run]
Restore packages from backup file. Use \fB\-\-dry-run\fR to simulate the restore process.
.TP
.B clean [\-\-aggressive] [\-\-dry-run]
Clean system packages. \fB\-\-aggressive\fR includes config files and logs. \fB\-\-dry-run\fR shows what would be removed.
.TP
.B status
Show system status and cleanup potential.
.TP
.B analyze [\-\-size SIZE]
Analyze package sizes. SIZE can be 1MB, 10MB, 50MB, 100MB, 500MB, or 1GB.
.TP
.B help
Show help message.
.TP
.B version
Show version information.
.TP
.B completion [bash|zsh]
Generate shell completion scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-minimal
Backup only user-installed packages (excludes dependencies).
.TP
.B \-\-dry-run
Simulate operation without making changes.
.TP
.B \-\-aggressive
Perform aggressive cleanup including configuration files and logs.
.TP
.B \-\-size SIZE
Filter packages by minimum size (e.g., 100MB, 1GB).
.SH EXAMPLES
Backup user-installed packages:
.RS
.B apt-mgr backup \-\-minimal
.RE
.PP
Preview aggressive cleanup:
.RS
.B apt-mgr clean \-\-aggressive \-\-dry-run
.RE
.PP
Restore packages from backup:
.RS
.B apt-mgr restore backup\-20241201\-143022.txt
.RE
.PP
Find packages larger than 100MB:
.RS
.B apt-mgr analyze \-\-size 100MB
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
.B ~/.apt-mgr/backups/
Directory where backup files are stored.
.TP
.B /etc/apt-mgr.conf
Configuration file (if used).
.TP
.B ~/.apt-mgr/apt-mgr.log
Log file for all operations.
.SH AUTHOR
Mahros AL-Qabasy <mahros.elqabasy@gmail.com>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR apt (8),
.BR dpkg (1),
.BR apt-mark (8)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at <https://github.com/elqabasy/apt-mgr/issues>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2024 Mahros AL-Qabasy. License MIT.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
